And we're talking to Clark Evans, senior reference librarian at the Library of Congress on the 24th of October, 1996.
And they're showing me
how would you describe this it's not quite elephant folio size volume it's a binding it even has the appearance of leaf gold golden leaf that's right guilt uh edges on the on the outside of this volume and you open it up and where you know sometimes you see these joke things where people have a weapon inside a bible have you ever seen that you open up a book and they've carved out
these holes in here.
Well, in this instance, what we have are six plates.
That's correct.
Dessert plates.
I'm looking at two.
One is titled The Peach.
Ye garden's royal pride, am I a queen of beauty?
I can't even mention it.
This is in Kipling's hand, by the way, right?
And this one above it is called Capples.
That's right, Capples indeed.
And so Kipling had visited this family, apparently, in Pennsylvania about 100 years or so ago?
1889.
Yep, a little more than that.
And he apparently, as you said, was taken by this youngster.
And as a little gesture of friendship, her name was Caroline, and this was in Beaver, Pennsylvania.
Beaver, Pennsylvania.
See, I'm a good studier, and I am picking up.
He wrote these, and these were apparently impromptu.
That's correct.
Who knows?
Presumably, it was done just because he was probably only visiting in a generation.
And it seems also that the family had the perspicacity to bake these things and preserve them in some fashion.
And here they are at the Library of Congress.
How did they get here?
I'll explain that in a minute.
I just want to catch up to what we've already discussed.
This is called Collection of Plates by Reggie Kimmel.
Remember the young lady's initials are C.A.T., Caroline A. Taylor, and that is the cat of my parents.
That's on the back of the plate.
These are copies of them.
These are grapes and berries.
These are lovely.
They are indeed.
And you have photos of these?
Yes.
The photos that we see in the Binding probably date from the 20s as a New Yorker article to elaborate on them.
Well, I must get that New Yorker article.
And so these are grapes and berries, and there are two more, which would be titled.
And you're turning these like as if they're pages in her name.
That's right.
C-A-T.
Cat.
Oh, indeed, isn't that a nice touch?
He even put 18 years.
He dated.
Look, he's got a little face there.
That's right.
For a cat.
What are these?
These are plums and watermelons.
He spent some time on this, didn't he?
Very much so.
And you said these came over to the library and loved that.
Plums, Children of the Garden.
Do you keep saying Children of the Garden?
I'm reasonably certain this came to us from the several Kipling collections that we have here in this edition.
I'm reasonably certain this came to us as part of the Carpenter Kipling collection.
Oh, yes, here we go.
The William Carpenter Kipling collection.
And I can give you some background information about how the collection came, et cetera.
That's a great story.
A marvelous story.
And that hasn't been done, has it?
I don't think, well, let's say it's, I mean, it's alluded to.
A kitty cat, when you're looking at it upside down, a kitty cat's sitting on a fence.
If somebody, I mean, this is the policy of the Library of Commerce, want to arrange to have photographs of these, color photographs of these, take a gun.
That could be done.
Oh, yes, it could be done.
And does one have to know the call number of this, or is it sufficient to know the collection of places?
Yeah, the Kipling Deserve Place.
The Kipling Deserve Place.
Carpenter Kipling Collection would be, if you wanted to take it an extra layer.
Were they given to the library?
Yes, they were.
They were a gift to the library.
What a great idea.
Do we know anything at all about his visit to this family?
Well, I think, let me see if this, in fact, while I'm putting paper in the machine, when I just scrubbed it out there, perhaps it would.
It certainly gets into the fascinating history of the binding, which is that story unto itself, of course.
The New Yorker.
Isn't that great?
I'm reading The New Yorker here of December 14, 1929, and it's the piece on page 22.
It's titled Six Dinner Plates.
And it discusses the set of plates which came to the library.
Yeah, we have to get a copy of this.
Good.
We understand now how these verses were baked in.
The girl's hobby was pottery making.
During his visit, the girl made a set of six plates, and on each, the girl made the plates, you see.
What a great story this is.
Huh?
It's great.
And it's one little treasure.
out of millions.
Remember the old show, The Naked City?
There are six million stories in The Naked City.
You have just seen one.
I love it.
I'm going to write an article about this.
This collection came to the library in 1941, so that would be about 12 years after.
Carpenter was a great president of the Kitchen Society, and he was from Illinois.
Let me actually photocopy these as well.
This is very productive, by the way.
Trust me on this.
Let's touch that again when you think.
What were you saying, sir?
Oh, I'm sorry.
I mean, your life all went off in the context of this as a chosen story.
I think you're absolutely right.
I think it's an exciting...
concept indeed.
Well, that would focus, you see, and recreating the visit, but then in an article for a magazine, you could explain this whole thing.
Carpenter's involvement, how the book, how the book was new.
For the children's book, it would just be this interaction of this child with this great writer.
Also, I'll lead to a question.
I'm not a Kippen scholar.
Was he indeed
Did he have international renown by the late 1880s?
Perhaps not.
I think that may be a little bit young issue.
I'll check that out.
Because it may be that when he came, you see, at that point, he may have been relatively anonymous compared to, of course, his great renown that came later.
And that would certainly be another time...
I think you're right, because I have a number, and I'm not a Kipling reader, but they're just... Yeah, that's correct.
In fact, his device on his books was a swastika.
That's correct.
That's right.
Pre-Nazi swastika.
That's correct.
Indeed, you see that.
I've seen that.
That's right, which must have been a great embarrassment to him at the end.
Well, he died.
Oh, yeah, he's three years.
It took over in... What year was he?
33.
He would have seen that for three years.
Amazing.
This is the earliest book we know of in Abraham Lincoln's possession.
This is called Pickens Grammage.
You really want to take my breath away, right?
I have to hold it if it's okay with you.
I promise to do it.
Why don't you just describe it?
Well, it's a little story book.
Of course, when we think of Lincoln, we think of Springfield, Illinois.
He's a hometown of many years.
But prior to that, of course, as we remember the early tales of Lincoln, he lived in a little village of New Salem, Illinois.
That's basically the first town that he lived in.
Anyway, you're getting the idea about the story behind the book.
Anyway, when he first appeared in New Zealand as a man of, what, 21 years of age, he went to the village schoolmaster and he said, I would surely like to have an English grammar.
I'd like to learn more about the English grammar.
Now, is this apocryphal or is this recorded?
good solid historiography it is well documented in the hundred reminiscences and others so he went to Mentor Graham Mentor Graham was the name of the school and he went to Mentor Graham and said gee I would like to have an English grammar amazingly the school teacher did not have one but he knew of a farmer who lived six miles out of town who did have a grammar so Blinken goes the 12 mile round trip by foot
undoubtedly there's some chores on this farm, there's a state to acquire the very book that we're holding now.
And it's the sixth edition published in 1828.
That's right.
The first edition, this was Samuel Kirkham.
K-I-R-K-A-J-M.
That's right.
The first edition was printed in Frederick, Maryland, not so many years prior to that, 1823.
And it was an enormously popular
I went through numerous editions from its first appearance.
Is that a prior owner of A.D.?
No, no, that's Lincoln's writing.
That's Lincoln's writing, that's right.
And indeed, what he's saying there is Anne M. Rutledge is now learning grammar.
Oh, wow.
Remember, of course, the tale about A.D.
Anne, who's in New South?
Yeah.
So here's sort of a documentary evidence of a connection between the two of them.
We're looking at the title page of the English grammar and familiar lectures, accompanied by a compendium, semicolon, embracing a new systematic, S-Y-S-T-E-M-A-T-I-C-K, order of parsing, P-A-R-S-I-N-G, comma, a new system of punctuation, comma, exercises in false syntax, and a key to the exercise.
I actually love these titles.
designed for the use of schools and private learners.
Those last two words are actually private ones.
Private learners.
This grammar was sort of a self-teaching grammar.
Grammars up to that time, Lindley Murray being the main grammarian from England, they were sort of designed for classroom use.
The distinctive thing about self-teaching grammar, Lincoln would not have had access to a classroom yet,
to work with on an individual basis.
You see what this is?
Another possible children's book.
Yeah, that's right.
It's the story behind the book.
We're working on something, yeah.
And also from my new book, we have a chapter on relevant sacred texts.
This is a sacred text.
It is.
One of the questions that always comes down about Lincoln is how could this man with less than a year of formal stealing have such a remarkable command of the English language?
And the answer to that question is probably complex, but I can guarantee you a component of it was right here, because we know concretely that he devoured this volume.
He just read it.
And he's written in, in his hand, which I'm pointing to at the eraser end of my pencil.
That's right.
He has written above where it says English grammar.
N-M Rutledge.
N without an E. A-N-N-M Rutledge.
Rutledge.
R-U-T-L-E-D-G-E.
Right.
And it says English grammar, right?
That's right.
Is now.
And then the printed in is now learning, right?
Grammar.
Yes, sir.
And then what is Lincoln written?
Now, this was an insert.
Lincoln clerked a sort of gentleman named Denton Offit there in New South Wales.
Oh, F-F-E-T-T.
Yeah, he was a clerk in Denton Offit's store.
How old was Lincoln?
He probably said that.
Here, he would have just turned 23, I believe.
He was born in 1989.
So he just turned 23 when that was written.
But he would have been, by this time, he would have been quite a veteran of New Salem.
By the way, it says, Mr. James, once again, Lincoln's writing, Mr. James Rutledge, that's Anne's father.
Let's take it slowly.
Mr. James Rutledge, this is the father of Anne, pleased to pay the bearer, David P. Nelson.
Pleased to pay the bearer, B-E-A-R-B-R, right?
David P. Nelson, $30.
And the $30 is written now?
Yeah.
and this should be your receipt for the same.
Okay.
March 8, 1832.
And it's the numeral 8, TH underlined.
That's right.
1832, A Lincoln, and then underneath that, for D Offit.
When I first saw that, I thought that was short for district office, but no, it was a person, Dutton Offit, who was indeed the clerk for the...
Lincoln worked for this gentleman who could often own the store, but Lincoln worked in the goods.
This volume is 1828, so published four years prior to this.
Do you think that's the 1828 publication date for the book itself, or for this particular edition?
We don't know.
We're looking at the sixth edition title page of 1828.
Once again, the book initially appeared in 1823.
Now, he got this as a new book, you think?
It must have been relatively new, because
So it's been beaten to death by him.
Yeah, that's right.
He arrived in New Salem, I believe, in 1830, when he was 21 years of age.
So it would have only been, let's say, at the most, two or three years old when he would have gotten his... Probably he was just two years old.
Wow.
But it might have been new.
That's right.
But the significance of this book, once again, you said he devoured it.
And you were telling me something.
Well, actually, it shows a documentary proof of its connection with Anne.
For many years, let's say from 1970 to 1940, historians always played up a romantic and panglement between Abe and Anne.
Anne has perhaps, you know, died.
Young, about 1830, died tragically in a mountain.
About long after this inscription.
That's correct.
And so, historians very much were attracted to this idea that the two of them were sort of, how should I say, Jewish sweethearts.
And indeed, that held sway in history so broad.
It was at Lincoln for decades.
Starting in the 1940s, James G. Randall, who comes to mind, historians really started to attack this concept, that they thought that this was this idea that the two of them were romantically involved.
It was a fabrication.
And so for the next 40 to 50 years, and indeed to a degree right to this day, historians are trying to throw cold water on the idea that the two of them were romantically involved.
But in point of fact,
More recently, serious historians have re-looked at the story and found that actually there's pretty solid evidence that indeed they were, more than friends.
And so I can cite some articles for you on that film.
I don't even know if that's that necessary.
But basically, once again, after Lincoln is finished with the volume, he passes it on to Anne.
And of course, obviously, we see that they... And that is definitely his A.
Oh, yeah, yeah, that's right.
There's no ambiguity about that.
So anyway, the book passes on to Anne.
Of course, Anne, once again, tragically dies in 1835.
And the book then is passed to one of the Rutledge brothers, one of her brothers.
That brother, I think, migrates out west to Montana.
And it's to the sons of that brother, Jane Hammond,
in Decatur, Illinois, was able to acquire the mind, she was able to, she'd heard of his grammar and she was curious about what could have happened to her.
So she made contact with all of the other descendants and was able, through one of them, to find and view, here it is.
How recent?
Oh, this was in the 1920s when Joan Handen was doing this.
So fairly recent.
Yeah, that's right.
As things go.
when, indeed, at that point, Jane Hammond was collecting a lot of Lincoln material.
This was in there all the time?
No, no, no.
I think that was inserted in.
Oh, what's this?
That's probably, I don't think this is Lincoln related, probably from other owners maybe in the village, or possibly maybe it was written into that former's family.
Well, it must have been.
Look, 1829.
This would have been scribbling
So what we've just done is we've lifted up this sheet, which has been tipped in.
It's been tipped in.
And then underneath this, we're seeing some other writings.
That's right, that's right.
And the air of the year.
It says somebody might commence study.
They've actually made a record of their reading, haven't they?
They've made a record of what they're doing here.
And this is dated 1829.
So did the book come to the library with this sheet?
That I'm not sure, although it's entirely possible that it did.
But certainly there's a connection between this book and this piece of paper.
It's quite possible that the fact that it's another piece of paper
paper evidence of Lincoln's presence in New Salem, that someone thought it would be appropriate to have this.
And you said this is also the earliest book known to have been in Lincoln's possession.
That's correct.
Do you have any idea, that's not your job here, but I mean I just recently read about a Lincoln letter, a million dollars, about as risky as, you know, to a little girl.
Can you imagine, and this is when he was running for president,
you know, 32 years, whatever, 30, 28 years after this.
A million dollars, maybe?
I would perhaps, because nothing like this, I'll link in my manuscript this one thing, because nothing of this nature, it would be hard for me.
Yeah, I'm sure that's extraordinary.
Wonderful.
And I'm so glad it's here.
It could be someplace else.
And this was the sentiment.
When this descendant of Anne Rutherford...
said that, okay, Ms.
Allen, you can have the book.
She said that she would only receive except this book from the Rutgers Center, the idea that it was destined for the Library of Congress in Washington.
They would know that she would serve as a prophet.
It's a wonderful story.
So you've got your favorites here, aren't you?
Oh, yeah.
No question about it.
But it seems to me that your favorites have a story attached to them.
I think there's a narrative quality behind the book as a grammar in Lincoln's grammar.
I think in this particular case, let's say that I have a personal interest in Lincoln, as indeed millions of other Americans do, and it's wonderful thanks to Alfred Whittleston that he had this great collection of Inconiana in The Division.
the more you become involved in a collection, something like this takes out a game, of course.
That goes into my top ten tactile experiences with forestry.
I'm delighted.
I'm ranking it on the Google Earth Bible.
It's a great
A great piece of history.
A great piece of American history.
I'm holding a book, that he would have Lincoln.
This just didn't pass through his hands.
He spent unknown hours with that book.
That's right.
This is not something that somebody just hadn't signed.
This book actually helped shape and inform him.
That very book.
A copy of that book.
If you want to know what association... Years ago, I...
I wrote a little article for a newsletter here in town called The Wayne Pony.
And let me see if I can dig that up before you have it.
I'm not sure I have it readily available, but if I do, it might help out.
Oh, sure, here we are.
Okay, super duper.
Can we do email at all?
I can.
I'm sort of getting into his way.
Okay, we're better to do it this way.
the popular and video travels here.
Peter undoubtedly showed you some of the items from the Leicester Rosenwald collection.
And I was so lucky that when I was here, that great exhibition was going on.
In fact, I've got my name in that book.
I made it.
So I was... I basically saw everything.
Do you know that they show any of these 20th century French findings at all?
I don't think anything.
I just wanted to show you a few of them.
Paul Bernet Jones, and this is called Dapri Parry, 1921, I believe.
Look at that.
And I just thought that you might be here.
Now is Lessing into binding so much?
There must be great illustrations.
Yeah, there is, there is illustrations.
Dapri Parry, look at the paper.
Oh, that's beautiful.
Lithographs of Jean-Louis Foussino.
B-O-U-S-S-I-N-G-A-U-L-T.
Okay, let him read.
Oh, that's beautiful.
Oh, I think about that.
This is probably an addition to how many?
Half a dungeon?
One.
Because the binding makes it unique.
It's so beautiful, isn't it?
And it looks like, of course, it was just recently, once again, actually, we're looking at a work from about 19, 20, 21, I don't know, 75 years.
Yeah, 21 seems to be the best.
Beautiful.
Quite a job you have here.
And obviously, we have a deep appreciation to these things.
This came over with the Rosenwald collection.
Just one more book.
This is from 1930.
Once again, one of the Almanides is finding the holograms by the Almanides.
Do you like bindings as a rule, yourself?
I can't claim any scholarship in terms of an art historian as in the context of the arts.
That's a layman, goodness, yeah.
Yeah, who would not indeed be something like that?
I don't want to focus on your specialty in that.
Now, how does this particular binding relate, say, how does it complement the text or whatever?
Well, yeah, I think, actually,
Two or three things here.
Notice the title and the silver.
I can't see.
I should just say it.
In other words, notice how the binder is just... He's actually done every other... On the raised part of the binder, he's written out the title.
And notice the author is on the lower part.
A-P-O-L-I-N-A-Pollinaire.
I believe that
Obviously, in something like this, there was a limited work.
Each line is unique in some fashion from the others.
And the best way for me, oh, by the way, let me see you.
Oh, there.
You can let me see to it.
Look at that.
When you open it, see, but there's a sort of paragraph where it's closed, isn't it?
Oh, there's some treasures here.
Yeah, this is spectacular.
Oh, my God.
That's a beauty.
Paul Bernays of 1931.
Oh, my God.
Well, I just had the rare privilege and honor to hold Abraham Lincoln's grammar, dated 1832, in his hand.
That's right.
Well, actually, the grammar was interesting.
1830, I would think, is one of the first words required.
But I think that inscription he wrote was 1832.
When he clerked in James Rutledge's store, that would have been attached to... Oh, I see.
That's not necessarily related to the book.
Okay, that's good.
Well, it is to the extent that it tells the whole story of his time in New Salem and his attachment to the Rutledge family.
um and uh there's no doubt about its authenticity as an original link in the autograph but um so in a broad sense it does it is related to the book i think that was clearly put in something that starts to be collected and um let me actually um believe it or not john has gone through about four books the first two we've really got
Well, I read Kipling's dessert plates and I read Kipling's dessert plates and I read a little piece on that.
And I might even, I'm thinking out loud, do a children's book.
That's brilliant.
I mean, it's a mix of natural.
I think you should probably get a little more into the detail about
Once again, you won't find it.
And as you said, that also came over with the .
You wouldn't even know that you could see through those.
.
I just brought out two other little things.
This is just a final resume.
We made a manuscript from about 1500.
From where else?
I think it's French.
I'm not going to touch this one.
I'm going to look at it.
Not to denigrate in any way the calligraphic pages would be extraordinary as well.
Oh, that's just so totally fresh.
I mean, I could have been done two weeks ago.
There's your lapis over there.
Look at that.
Can we know who owned this?
Well, you know, I'm getting to this production for a long time.
It was believed to have been the work of Jeffrey Torrey, but in point of fact, recent work has said no, it's not Torrey.
Is this vellum, by the way?
Yes, it is vellum.
That's correct.
Look at this.
Hard to believe.
Absolutely.
Look at the faces and smile.
Look how precise the one is there.
Look at the gold on the rope there.
And the beads, the masterpieces, you know, when you think of paintings and then they're enclosed in a book.
Yeah, and often I say, I've had a New York Museum in the public, which is true about that.
That's just absolutely wonderful.
And it brings up the fact that the first book illustration fully relates to what was being done on the canvas at the time period of time.
Do we know who these artists are?
I would need to check the most recent cataloging, but once again, for a while, it was thought Jeffrey Torrey was the artist here, but in point of fact... You said that we're not sure about that.
That's right.
I believe that there's reason to believe that he was not the artist.
Is this listed in one of the Rosenwald catalog books?
Yes, very much so.
Very much so.
It's indeed in the... And it says they run the... Number what practice?
Number 14.
I'm just looking at the... It's number 14 in the catalog.
we could get all of that.
With the pastel quality in the background.
You always look at the... What are these black things on the hand?
The shoes that are on it?
There's an Arabic proverb that we put in one of our little quote books.
It says the book is a garden in your hand.
It just said it's a museum.
It's all of these things.
That's the beauty of it.
That's a treat.
Yeah, that's really wonderful.
And is it something that Lessing had bound, or did it, I don't think so?
No, I think probably, well of course now the outside box would have been bound by these bookbinders in Philadelphia.
I think that's an old binding problem.
Yeah, that's probably a 19th century one.
Our binding says Jeffrey Torrey, 1524.
That's right.
And once again, that's the binding?
Yeah, okay.
No, no, that's the label.
That's the label.
That's the way.
Decades ago, I think there was a whole week through that.
That takes a forward a couple hundred years.
That's right.
Look at that.
That's wonderful.
What's our schedule, sir?
Look at this work back here.
And what is it?
What kind of a book is it?
It's a book of hours.
undoubtedly produced for some of the considerable substance.
Yeah, but that's an old binding, yeah.
Well, say early 1950s, perhaps.
And it was used, too, wasn't it?
It was handled.
That's the house back in there.
This is a 1782 Dutch Bible, and it's...
In fact, we still have some acquisition information out there.
I just wanted to show you the illustrations of the work of the Remain de Hoog.
Of whom, I'm sorry?
Remain de Hoog, HFGUE.
He was a particularly renowned Dutch printmaker and illustrator at the time.
let's say the late 17th, early 18th centuries.
And so we have some of these other works, and this particular acquisition from a few years ago obviously helped strengthen our local buildings, but notice the, unlike most other extant editions of this particular, these are all hand.
by an artist of some considerable ability, I would say.
I would think so.
Look at that.
It just flies against general with, you know, wisdom that if it's colored, it's not as good.
It's just ridiculous.
Except if you have the master himself coloring.
Well, that's another story.
Actually, it's in two volumes, and indeed you're just to...
And look how this old paper stands up.
That's beautiful.
Look, feel that.
And that's probably a contemporary binding, wouldn't you say?
Yes.
No, that binding does appear to be the original binding.
Oh, boy.
Oh, my God.
That's wonderful.
Biblia.
What's the generic name for this?
Have any scholars used it since its acquisition?
Probably not.
They bought it for you, sir.
You never know.
Formalance would be interesting here.
Do you have any idea who owned it?
Yes, I think that's accessible information.
... ... ... ... ... ... ...
Geronimo.
You put a G on it and you've got an Indian warrior.
Oh, boy.
We love these raps, don't we?
Look how good they are.
We still have California as an island over here.
And that's what Dr. Billingson was saying yesterday.
Thankfully, it didn't happen, but it just drives him crazy when his books are bought and raped and torn up and sold.
What a criminal act it is.
But there were people who would take that out, wouldn't they?
Sure.
Did you see the book?
Any one of Otto Bettany's I've been working with is I've been just enjoying right now.
And the animals there.
That's gorgeous.
And look at the evidence again.
Magnificent.
Okay.